CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

:toc:

= Contributing Guide

Want to contribute to the Arquillian Cube? We try to make it easy, and all contributions, even the smaller ones,
are more than welcome. This includes bug reports, fixes, documentation, etc. First though, please read this page
(including the small print at the end).

== Legal

All original contributions to Arquillian Cube are licensed under the
https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[ASL - Apache License], version 2.0 or later, or, if another license is
specified as governing the file or directory being modified, such other license.

All contributions are subject to the https://developercertificate.org/[Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)].
The DCO text is also included verbatim in the https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/dco.txt[dco.txt] file in the root directory of the repository.

== Reporting an issue

This project uses https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/issues[GitHub] for filing issues.

If you believe you found a bug, and it's likely possible, please indicate a way to reproduce it, what you are seeing and
what you would expect to see.

== Before you contribute

To contribute, use GitHub Pull Requests, from your **own** fork, and be sure to mention the related issue both in the
PR summary and in each commit description.

Also, make sure you have set up your Git authorship correctly:

----
git config --global user.name "Your Full Name"
git config --global user.email your.email@example.com
----

If you use different computers to contribute, please make sure the name is the same on all your computers.

We use this information to acknowledge your contributions in release announcements.

== Setup

If you have not done so on this machine, you need to:

* Install Git and configure your GitHub access
* Install Java SDK 11+ (OpenJDK recommended)

Commit message:

[issue-1407] - (Unrelated,doc) - Fix the dco.txt link in the CONTRIBUTING.adoc file

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

:toc:

= Contributing Guide

Want to contribute to the Arquillian Cube? We try to make it easy, and all contributions, even the smaller ones,
are more than welcome. This includes bug reports, fixes, documentation, etc. First though, please read this page
(including the small print at the end).

== Legal

All original contributions to Arquillian Cube are licensed under the
https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[ASL - Apache License], version 2.0 or later, or, if another license is
specified as governing the file or directory being modified, such other license.

All contributions are subject to the https://developercertificate.org/[Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)].
The DCO text is also included verbatim in the link:dco.txt[dco.txt] file in the root directory of the repository.

== Reporting an issue

This project uses https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/issues[GitHub] for filing issues.

If you believe you found a bug, and it's likely possible, please indicate a way to reproduce it, what you are seeing and
what you would expect to see.

== Before you contribute

To contribute, use GitHub Pull Requests, from your **own** fork, and be sure to mention the related issue both in the
PR summary and in each commit description.

Also, make sure you have set up your Git authorship correctly:

----
git config --global user.name "Your Full Name"
git config --global user.email your.email@example.com
----

If you use different computers to contribute, please make sure the name is the same on all your computers.

We use this information to acknowledge your contributions in release announcements.

== Setup

If you have not done so on this machine, you need to:

* Install Git and configure your GitHub access
* Install Java SDK 11+ (OpenJDK recommended)
