docs/reports.adoc, before:

== Arquillian Recorder Reporter integration

Arquillian Recorder (https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-recorder) project brings neat reports of your Arquillian tests.

Check Arquillian Recorder website to see the kind of reports you can generate and how to configure it.

Arquillian Cube integrates with Arquillian Recorder Reporter to provide in these reports some information about Cube environment.

To integrate Cube with Reporter, you only need to add arquillian recorder dependency:

[source, xml]
.pom.xml
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.extension</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-recorder-reporter-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${version.arquillian.recorder}</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

After that all *cubes* information will be added in the report.
Cubes are elements that are deployed into a system, for example a Pod or a Docker container.

For example in case of a Docker Cube it will report start and stop duration time, if it has failed or not and some container properties like ports, links, image name, entrypoint, network ....

=== Arquillian Cube Docker Reporter

In previous section you've read that by just adding recorder reporter dependency, you get integration between cube and reporter and some information about cube (for example a docker container) is reported.

But sometimes you need more information about the system and not each cube individually.
For this reason there is a docker cube reporter integration that adds on the report information specific to docker environment like the composition used during deployment or docker host information.

For this reason if you add next dependency too:

[source, xml]
.pom.xml
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-cube-docker-recorder</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

Information about docker host and an schema of docker compositions will be added in the report.

=== Arquillian Cube Docker Drone Integration

In <<Cube Docker Drone/Graphene Integration>> you've read that you can execute web UI tests inside a docker container which contains the browser.
Also an screencast is recorded so you can review lately what has happened inside the container.

If you add previous dependency  `arquillian-cube-docker-recorder` and `arquillian-recorder-reporter-impl` in a cube docker drone project, then the report will contain the screencasts as well in the report, so you can play from the report the recordings as well.

=== Examples

Arquillian Cube Docker Reports: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/docker/ftest-reporter

Arquillian Cube Docker Drone Reports: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/docker/ftest-drone-reporter

Arquillian Recorder Reporter website for more information: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-recorder

Commit message:

[issue #429] integrates restassured to reporter (#432)
* [issue #429] integrates restassured to reporter

* updates documentation

docs/reports.adoc, after:

== Arquillian Recorder Reporter integration

Arquillian Recorder (https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-recorder) project brings neat reports of your Arquillian tests.

Check Arquillian Recorder website to see the kind of reports you can generate and how to configure it.

Arquillian Cube integrates with Arquillian Recorder Reporter to provide in these reports some information about Cube environment.

To integrate Cube with Reporter, you only need to add arquillian recorder dependency:

[source, xml]
.pom.xml
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.extension</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-recorder-reporter-impl</artifactId>
    <version>${version.arquillian.recorder}</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

After that all *cubes* information will be added in the report.
Cubes are elements that are deployed into a system, for example a Pod or a Docker container.

For example in case of a Docker Cube it will report start and stop duration time, if it has failed or not and some container properties like ports, links, image name, entrypoint, network ....

=== Arquillian Cube Docker Reporter

In previous section you've read that by just adding recorder reporter dependency, you get integration between cube and reporter and some information about cube (for example a docker container) is reported.

But sometimes you need more information about the system and not each cube individually.
For this reason there is a docker cube reporter integration that adds on the report information specific to docker environment like the composition used during deployment or docker host information.

For this reason if you add next dependency too:

[source, xml]
.pom.xml
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.arquillian.cube</groupId>
    <artifactId>arquillian-cube-docker-recorder</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

Information about docker host and an schema of docker compositions will be added in the report.

=== Arquillian Cube Docker Drone Integration

In <<Cube Docker Drone/Graphene Integration>> you've read that you can execute web UI tests inside a docker container which contains the browser.
Also an screencast is recorded so you can review lately what has happened inside the container.

If you add previous dependency  `arquillian-cube-docker-recorder` and `arquillian-recorder-reporter-impl` in a cube docker drone project, then the report will contain the screencasts as well in the report, so you can play from the report the recordings as well.

=== Arquillian Cube Docker RestAssured Integration

If you add `arquillian-cube-docker-recorder` and `arquillian-recorder-reporter-impl` in a cube docker RestAssured project, then the report will contain the request and response logs for all test methods.

=== Examples

Arquillian Cube Docker Reports: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/docker/ftest-reporter

Arquillian Cube Docker Drone Reports: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-cube/tree/master/docker/ftest-drone-reporter

Arquillian Recorder Reporter website for more information: https://github.com/arquillian/arquillian-recorder
